So yeah, I guess one last kinda like wrap
up sort of thing that I want to say,
is APT is actually several
tools combined together.
And so like it's apt get,
its apt remove, its apt update.
So they kind of took all of those
various different tools, and
they wrote APT which is a higher tool on
top of all these like lower level tools.
So under the hood, apt is using apt get,
and it's using apt search, and apt cache,
and a bunch of these other tools.
So you can actually use those tools
directly as well, it's just apt is
meant to be a more user friendly sort
of tool, so that's why it exists.
Mark.
>> What's the difference
between upgrade and update?
>> Good question, what's the difference
So upgrade is actually
going to upgrade a package.
So if I say sudo apt upgrade Node.js, this
is going to go update the Node.js package,
and it's going to say you already have
the latest version, why are you asking me?
What is it?
Eight?
That's real sad, notice,
that makes me really sad that it has a
deprecated version of node that installed.
But, that's what it has on this registry,
right?
That is something that I guess
bears mentioning is like,
they're pretty conservative
of how they upgrade packages.
So in this case, I do not recommend
installing Node.js through APT, I would
suggest installing it directly from Node
or from NodeSource or something like that.
So that's what upgrade does upgrade,
upgrades a package for you.
Whereas update sudo apt update,
this is going to go get a new
version of the registry basically,
it's going to go up, grab, like, here's
all the latest version of the packages.
This isn't actually upgrade any package,
it updates the available packages
that APT has to go get, right?
So it gets a new list.
So you can see it goes out there,
it finds the patch list.
It then rebuilds dependency tree and
it figures everything out that way.
So that yeah,
that's the difference between the two.
So run update, before you're an upgrade.
>> What's the package manager for Mac?
>> Homebrew,
it's like not official, whereas,
like, canonical makes
the package manager for
our mix ATP,
homebrew is a community project.
So I think, it's homebrew.sh.
Nope.
It's brew.sh.
There's another one called
MacPorts that is much slower,
so I definitely recommend homebrew.
And then you can come in and
say, like brew info Node.js.
Yeah, then you can see this comes
from Node.js.org, blah, blah, blah,
it installs 14.3,
which is a much newer version.
And then probably the next question
would be what's the one for Windows?
Microsoft just launched their new package
manager and it is called winget or
winget, depending on who you ask, it is
winget that's what the intention was,
but I'm quite happy with the winget.
There was also Chocolatey as well, but
that's kind of like the existing one,
whereas when we get the new one.
>> It's APT and it's registries are all
open source versus like, Node and
npm is there's a company behind
the registry, is it, how does that work?
>> Yeah, that's a good question,
I actually don't know.
The registry is available to like audit,
you can go look at the registry and
where the things come from, you can kinda
audit the supply chain of the code there.
Is the server serving a PC open source
knowing Canonical I would assume, so but
I don't want to say,
because I don't actually know,
whereas like you're correct, like npm.
That's a close source server that npm,
now owned by Github runs.
The Canonical basically
open source has everything.